Update conn-key plugin tutorial for ctx (#332)
zeek/zeek-docs: scripting/conn-id-ctx.rst

.. _script-conn-id-ctx:

==============================
Use of :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx`
==============================

.. versionadded:: 8.0

.. note::

   We’re still iterating on patterns for working with the new pluggable
   connection keys and :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx` instances.
   If you have feedback or run into limitations for your use-cases, please reach out!

> In certain deployments, Zeek will receive network traffic from different
> network segments that may have overlapping IP ranges.
> For example, host 10.0.0.37 in segment A and host 10.0.0.37 in segment B
> share the same IP address, but represent different systems.
> The terminology used within Zeek is that IP addresses or connections
> are observed in different "contexts".
> 
> 
> Commonly, ethernet layers may contain information that makes it possible to discriminate
> between different network segments. Concretely, VLAN tagging is one such approach.
> Segments can also be distinguished by Virtual Network Identifiers (VNIs)
> in case of UDP-based tunnels like VXLAN or Geneve.

Reviewer: Suggest to turn this around a bit, with more of the example early on. Like this:

```suggestion
In some deployments, Zeek may receive network traffic from different network segments sharing overlapping IP ranges. In such cases, there is then usually some additional means of separating out the two ranges, such as VLAN numbers. For example, host 10.0.0.37 in VLAN 1 and host 10.0.0.37 in VLAN 2 may share the same IP address, but represent different systems. In Zeek's terminology, such IP addresses (or connections) occur in different *contexts*. In the example, the context is the VLAN ID; in other settings, the context could be, say, Virtual Network Identifiers as used with UDP-based tunnels like VXLAN or Geneve. Generally, from Zeek's perspective, the context can be any kind of value that Zeek can derive from the Ethernet layers.
```

> Since Zeek 8.0, this information can be extracted by
> :ref:`plugin-provided connection key implementations <connkey-plugin>`
> and included into Zeek's core connection tracking. Further, plugins
> :zeek:keyword:`redefine <redef>` :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx` with additional
> fields to expose the extracted information used for connection tracking to
> the Zeek scripting layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since version 8.0, Zeek can extract these contexts through
:ref:`plugin-provided connection key implementations <connkey-plugin>`
and include them into its core connection tracking. Such plugins then also
:zeek:keyword:`redefine <redef>` :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx` with additional
fields to expose the context values to the Zeek scripting layer.
```

For example, loading the doc:`/scripts/policy/frameworks/conn_key/vlan_fivetuple.zeek`
adds :zeek:field:`vlan` and :zeek:field:`inner_vlan` fields to :zeeK:see:`conn_id_ctx`.

Script writers can use the :zeek:field:`conn_id$ctx <conn_id$ctx>` field to
discriminate the same :zeek:type:`addr` values observed in different contexts.

For example, to count the number of connections per originator address in
a context-aware manner, add the :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx` instance as part
of the index into a table:

.. code-block:: zeek

	global connection_counts: table[conn_id_ctx, addr] of count &default=0;

	event new_connection(c: connection) {
		++connection_counts[c$id$ctx, c$id$orig_h];
	}

> If :zeek:field:`ctx` is populated with fields for VLAN tags, the table indexing
> will take them into account and create individual entries per ``(ctx, addr)``
> pair.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If, for example, :zeek:field:`ctx` is populated with fields for VLAN tags, that table will create individual entries per ``(VLAN, addr)`` pair. This will also work correctly if no context has been defined: `c$id$ctx` will then just be an empty records with no fields. (This remains the default for most Zeek installations.)
```

Alternatively, users can define their own record type that includes both :zeek:see:`conn_id_ctx` and :zeek:type:`addr`,

> and use instances of such records to index into tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and use instances of such records to index into tables:
```

.. literalinclude:: conn_id_ctx_my_endpoint.zeek
   :caption: conn_id_ctx_my_endpoint.zeek
   :language: zeek
   :linenos:
   :tab-width: 4

This example tracks services that an originator IP address has been observed to interact with.
When loading the doc:`/scripts/policy/frameworks/conn_key/vlan_fivetuple.zeek`
script, IP addresses in different VLANs are tracked separately:

.. code-block:: shell

    $ zeek -r vlan-collisions.pcap frameworks/conn_key/vlan_fivetuple conn_id_ctx_my_endpoint.zeek
    [ctx=[vlan=42, inner_vlan=<uninitialized>], a=141.142.228.5], HTTP
    [ctx=[vlan=10, inner_vlan=20], a=141.142.228.5], HTTP
    [ctx=[vlan=<uninitialized>, inner_vlan=<uninitialized>], a=141.142.228.5], HTTP

Note that this script snippet isn't VLAN-specific, yet it is VLAN-aware. When
using a different connection key plugin, like the one discussed in the
:ref:`connection key tutorial <connkey-plugin>`, the result is as follows instead,
discriminating entries in the ``talks_with_service`` table by the value of

> ``c$id$ctx$vxlan_vni``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``c$id$ctx$vxlan_vni``:
```
